# Comparison-of-performance-of-machine-learning-classifiers-
Microarrays help to study the expression of thousands of genes simultaneously. The genes responsible for the tumour growth can be identified by analyzing changes in the gene expressions related to the tumour growth with microarray data from the normal and the tumour samples. There is a need for highly efficient computational techniques to analyze these large numbers of gene expressions and find out the most significant differentially expressed genes related to the particular disease. Many computational methods have difficulties in selecting the optimal set of genes because of the small number of samples compared to the thousands of genes. For machine learning classifiers to accurately classify the tumour and the normal samples, gene selection is a very important step. Microarray data contains more than one probes linked to the same gene, therefore we merged all the probes that belonged to the same genes into a single column by computing their mean. Then we used differential expression analysis using independent t-test to identify the differentially expressed gene. Then the most informative genes for classification were selected out of these differentially expressed genes using SVM-RFE (Support vector machine – recursive feature elimination). To better generalize the classification performance of machine learning models, we used the Meta – Dataset. Meta-dataset is a dataset of datasets, it provide the samples to the ML models from diverse experiments giving more realistic examples to the ML models to improve their generalization. We compared the performance of ten machine learning classifiers trained on the meta-dataset and a dataset from single experiment. For comparison of generalization of ML models the test datasets include data from meta-dataset and two more independent experiments. By comparing our models on this large and diverse test dataset, we showed that the ML classifiers performed better when trained on the meta-dataset and these models were able to generalize better on making predictions on samples from different independent experiments. 
